>> Will Sentance: When it hits an element
where it runs this function on it and
it gets a return value of true.
It takes not true and
put it in the array, no, no, no.
It takes the element itself,
sticks it in the array.
That's all the filter does.
We're not gonna build it out ourselves.
It's not hard to do so,
but that's all it's doing.
So let's take the first element, the 1.
And it's going to be inserted
into the greater than 2 function.
So we do greater than 2, taking the 1,
creates, everybody, a new?
>> Jasmine: Execution.
>> Will Sentance: Execution context,
exactly, there it is.
Into it we go and in the local memory.
>> Will Sentance: Jasmine, we're running
greater than 2 inside of filter on
the first element of the array,
which is the number 1.
And into the 1, 1 gets thrown
into greater than 2, Jasmine.
Therefore, our parameter that
is assigned that 1 is what?
>> Jasmine: Num.
>> Will Sentance: Num, exactly.
And then we've got numbers,
or a greater than 2,
which is reading return
num greater than 2.
1 greater than 2 evaluates to what,
Jasmine?
>> Jasmine: False.
>> Will Sentance: False, and
we return out false.
And so we move the hell on.
And we do with 2 greater than 2,
input of 2.
Well, presumably,
that still also returns out false.
Now we take the 3, and
we call greater than 2 on the 3.
Let's do the execution context this time.
And Jasmine,
the num value here will be what?
>> Jasmine: 3.
>> Will Sentance: Num will be 3.
3 greater than 2, Jasmine?
>> Jasmine: True.
>> Will Sentance: True, return it out.
And the way filters written, and we're
not interested desperately in how it's
doing this, but
we have to sort of figure it out, right?
It's when it pauses in the 3, if it
returns out true from greater than 2,
it's gonna grab that 3 and
stick it in the new array.
Same with 4, in it goes.
Same with 5, in it goes.
Same with 6.
And then this array gets
returned out 3, 4 ,5, 6.
We're gonna see later on, note, we have
not mutated, altered our underlying array.
Meaning the result of this line running
filter on that array with that condition
is all self-contained to that line,
unless we assign it to a global like this.
It's all self-contained to that line,
or that's maybe our problem, hold on.
Do I wanna be assigned to a global and
have another line of code al that
all other lines of code depend on?
No, there's a way around it, folk.
We can chain these higher
order functions together.
We can do this.
Look at this,
array dot filter parsing greater than 2.
I didn't show you this directly,
gonna show you now.
It actually turns, array evaluates to 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6 becomes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
Running filter with the parenthesis.
This whole portion will
actually become what?
Raise your hand if you wanna tell me
what this whole portion will become to
JavaScript?
Yeah, Eric.
>> Eric: An array with 3, 4, 5 and 6.
>> Will Sentance: Exactly,
it evaluates to our array of 3, 4, 5, 6.
Now, that array has access to what
collection of functions, Eric?
>> Eric: The prototype chain.
>> Will Sentance: Up the chain,
up the chain,
>> Will Sentance: To
our shared collection of functions
that all arrays get access to.
Meaning, do I need to save this
result to another label and
then go and grab these functions?
Or can I?
David shakes his head, he's right.
Can I just literally write dot reduce,
right there on the end,
whenever I wanna do.
And know that I can stick
it right on the end.
Meaning array dot filter being called
greater than 2 2 becomes 3, 4, 5,
6 from our original 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
And then that, we run the reduced
method on because the array or
arrays have access to
the shared functions.
We put dot reduce.
Well, let's just quickly remind
ourselves of how reduce works.
So 3, 4, 5, 6 reduced with the input of 0.
How are we combining the first two,
Virginia, by what rule for
combining the first, by adding?
There it is we get 3.
Combined with the next one, we get 7,
combined the output of that combination,
that reduction of 2 to 1.
When 2 becomes 1, we combine with
the next value, which gives us 12.
The output of that gives us 18.
Meaning what does this
portion evaluate to, David?
>> David: 18.
>> Will Sentance: To 18, to 18, and
there it is, people.
Meaning array dot filter being called with
greater than 2, that evaluated to 3, 4,
5, 6.
And then that got dot reduced and
that evaluated to 18.
And that means the whole
block evaluates to 18.
Alex, we do what with that 18?
>> Alex: Starting sum of greater than 2.
>> Will Sentance: Starting sum
of greater than 2, exactly.
Well, we had array from
our earlier version.
We store it into sum of greater than 2,
which is a good name for it, right?
Because we filled that array down to 3,
4, 5, 6 and some up.